MongoDB

It is an opensource Database management system (DBMS) which uses a document oriented database model which supports various forms of data.

In Mongodb, instead of using tables and rows to store data, it uses  collections and documents.

It is also called as NO-SQL language, as we dont write queries to retrive data, instead we write simple commands to manipulate data.

Following are the high end features of MongoDB:

1. Each database in mongo contains set of collections which inturn contains documents. Each document can be different with a varying number of fields.  The size and content of each document in a collection can be different from each other.

2. The document structure is more inline with how developers construct their classes and objects in their respective programming languages.

3. The rows or documents in mongodb doesn't need to have a predefined schema , instead the fields can be created on the fly.

4. The data model available within MongoDb allows you to represent hierarchical relationships, to store arrays, and other more complex structures more easly.

Key Components of mongodb Architecture:

1. '_id' - This is a required filed in every mongodb document. The _id field represents a unique value in teh MongoDB  document. It is like a primary key. If we create a new document, without _id, Mongo will automatically adds a filed _id with a unique random value.

2. C ollection: This is a grouping of mongodb documents. A collection is the equivalante of a table which is created in other RDBMS

3. Cursor: This is a pointer to the result set of a query, Clients can iterate through a cursor to retrive  results.

4. Database: -  This is a container for  collections. In a single mongo db server, it can hold any number of Databases.

5. Document: Is a  record in a mongodb collection is basically called a document, Document inturn consists of field names and values.

6. Field - A name-value pair in a document. A document can have zero or more numkber of fields.

List of commands can be run on Mongo shell:

1. help - Shows the help options
2. show dbs - Shows the list of current databases in mongo server
3. use <databasename> - Uses the specified database as current.

4. show collections - Lists out all collections available in current database

5. db.<collection name>.find() - Returns all documents in specified collection.

6. db.<collection name>.find({gender: "female"}) - Returns all documents from collection having gender as female

7. db.<collection name>.insertOne() - Inserts a new document to collection.

8. db.collectionname.insertMany() - To insert many records at a time.
9. db.collectionname.updateOne() - To updated a single record at a time.
10. db.collectionname.updateM any() - To updated more than one  record at a time.
11. db.collectionname.deleteOne() - To delete single documen t
12. db.collectionname.deleteMany() - To delete more than one documents.
13. db.collection.drop() - Drops the collection from database
14. db.collection.count() - Returns total number of documents.
15. db .collection.find().limit(n) - returns only n results
16. db .collection.find().sort(<criteria>) - Returns sorted document based on provided criteria.

etc.

