Creating External Style-sheet:--> its is always recommended to create an external file with all the css classes(file with extension.css) .
link is predefine tag threw which we could include a single css file within a webpage(html page).
In a single webpage we can include any number of external css files using multiple link tags.
Syntax: 
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="path of external file">

css positions: - any time if we want to move any dom element to any required position within the page, can be done using margin or padding properties.
if a dom element moves to the required position using margin or padding properties, it is actually not moving but the element is increasing it own dimensions.
In order to make or move any dom element to any requires without increasing the dimesion we we use to following css property:.....
1> top 2> left 3> bottom 

not all the dom element can consider the above css properties but only the dom element which are being position can consider the above properties .
Is a predefined property threw which we could able to change position of any dom element following are the posible values a position value in position property takes.
1> static
2> Relative
3> Fixed
4> Absolute .

Element With position static
								Every dom element by defaults holds the position properties with values static.
Any dom element with postion statics hold following properties:
1>  static postioned element cannot be move from the default position 
2> static postioned element will not consider top, left, right and bottom proprties to static element , it just skips to consider them.
Syntax:
		position: static;

Element with position relative : its holds the following prop
1> its capable to moving to any required position within the page.
2> its capable of considering the properties left, right , top and bottom.
3> when its moves to a new position it never looses the default space bean of abeing  by the element the page load.
4> While moving to a new pisition it always movesrelative to its actual default position.
Syntax:
	position:relative: